    README file for the `orb' GAP4 package
        
To get the newest version of this GAP 4 package download one of the
archive files
    orb-x.x.tar.gz
    orb-x.x.zoo
    orb-x.x.tar.bz2
    orb-x.x.zip
and unpack it using 
    gunzip orb-x.x.tar.gz; tar xvf orb-x.x.tar
respectively
    unzoo -x orb-x.x.zoo
and so on.

Do this preferably (but not necessarily) inside the `pkg' subdirectory
of your GAP 4 installation. It creates a subdirectory called `orb'.

As of version 3.0, the orb package has a GAP kernel component which
should be compiled. This component does not actually contain new
functionality but will improve the performance of AVL trees and hash
tables significantly since many core routines are implemented in the C
language at kernel level.

To compile the C part of the package do (in the "pkg" directory)

    cd orb
    ./configure
    make

If you installed the package in another "pkg" directory than the
standard "pkg" directory in your GAP4 installation, then you have to
do two things. Firstly during compilation you have to use the option
"--with-gaproot=PATH" of the "configure" script where "PATH" is a path
to the main GAP root directory (if not given the default "../.." is
assumed).

Secondly you have to 
specify the path to the directory containing your
"pkg"
directory to GAP's list of directories. This can be done by starting
GAP with the "-l" command line option followed by the name
of the directory and a semicolon. Then your directory is prepended to
the list of directories searched. Otherwise the package is not found by
GAP. Of course, you can add this option to your GAP startup script.

If you installed GAP on several architectures, you must execute the
configure/make step for each of the architectures. You can either
do this immediately after
configuring and compiling GAP itself on this architecture, or alternatively (when
using version 4.5 of GAP or newer) set the environment variable
"CONFIGNAME" to the name of the configuration you used when
compiling GAP before running "./configure". 
Note however that your compiler choice and flags
(environment variables "CC" and "CFLAGS" need to be
chosen to match the setup of the original GAP compilation. For
example you have to specify 32-bit or 64-bit mode correctly!

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Recompiling the documentation is possible by the command `gap makedoc.g'
in the orb directory. But this should not be necessary.

E-mail me if there are any questions, remarks, suggestions. Also, I
would like to hear about applications of this package.


Max Neunhoeffer, e-mail: neunhoef@mcs.st-and.ac.uk
